# Lecture 3.4 - Evaluating Requirements

## Validation & Verification
* Validation: build the right system
  * Does the requirements definition accurately reflect the customers (all stakeholder) needs?

* Verification: Build the system right 
    * Confirm that one document or artifact conforms to another
        * Does code match designs?
        * Does the design match specification? 
        * Does the specification match the definition?

## Good Requirements are...
* Correct: They have to say the right things.
* Consistent: They can't contradict each other.
* Unambiguous: Each must have 1 interpretation.
* Complete: They cover all the important stuff.
* Relevant: Each must meet a customer need.
* Testable: There must be a way to tell if they are satisfied
* Traceable: There must be a way to determine their origin

## Approach for Evaluating Requirements
* Six good techniques:
  * Paper prototyping
  * Low-Fidelity prototyping
  * High-Fidelity prototyping
  * Stakeholder review
  * Formal analysis
  * Manual analysis

## Prototyping Overview
1) You depict what you *think* the system should look like.
2) You *test* the prototypes with customers or (preferably) users.
3) You *fix up* the prototypes and use what you learn to implement the real system

## Kinds of Prototypes
* Throwaway prototypes
  * *Paper prototypes* - Sketches on pieces of paper
  * *Low-fidelity prototypes* - Implemented with a tool (e.g. Photoshop)
* Evolutionary prototypes
  * *High-fidelity prototypes* - Implemented on the target platform.. not fully functional, but destined to be incorporated into the final product

## Paper Prototypes
* Sketch on paper and/or post-it notes
* Don't worry (much) about colors, fonts, icons
* Doesn't need to be beautiful 
* Does need to show all important UI elements
* Does need to be intelligible by users

## Testing Prototypes
* Pretend to be the computer whie a user tries to perform a use case with your prototype
* *Let the user interface speak for itself*
  * So shut up and see if the user can do it themselves.
* If the user misunderstands the user interface, then fix it on the spot if you can. 
  * Principle: the user is always right (in prototyping)

## Low-fidelity Prototypes
* Fidelity = closeness to what the ultimate product would look like
  * Paper prototypes are ultra-low fidelty
* Low fidelity prototypes can be made in 
  * Photoshop, Powerpoint, HTML, & any other tool that's cheap and easy to use

## Strengths & Weaknesses
* If you ask somebody to use a prototype
    * You probably will discover many problems with the user interface (functional or non-functional)
    * But you probably will not discover anything else
        * Such as use case you missed
        * Strange interactions between use cases
        * Quality attributes that you never thought of
        * Ways in which the system could badly fail

## Stakeholder Review
1) Sit down with stakeholders
2) Engineers present their understanding of requirements
3) Stakeholders correct this understanding
4) Everybody discussed/argues/negotiates
5) Engineers revise requirements
* Repeat, if necessary

## Manual Analysis
* Systematically check consistency
  * If the unstructured text says that the system should support X, is this consistent with what the use cases are saying?
  * And are the necessary entities shown in the UML class diagram and/or message sequence diagrams?

## Formal Analysis
* Define two formal models
  * Describing the requirement definition
  * Describing the requirement specification
* Automatically check if the specification satifies the defintion
* Valuable, but very exepnseive and thus not really used by many engineers in practice
* Provable guarantee!!!
  * (or your money back)
* MOdels are expressed in mathematical notation and *mathematically* check for consistency.

## Strengths of Each Technique
| Technique | Strengths | Weaknesses |
| --------- | --------- | ---------- |
| Paper Prototyping | Evaluating visual requirements | Often misses interactions between use cases
| Low-fidelity prototyping | Evaluating visual requirements | A little expensive. Need design skills
| Stakeholder review | Evaluating fit to context | Costs customer time |
| Manual analysis | Checking for consistency | Easy to miss errors |
| Formal analysis | Can guarantee formally specifiable properties | Expensive. Need formal skills |

